What is Sim Selections?
They are monthly song writing challenges run in Benn Jordan's discord community. They have a theme, 2 key words and an optional challenge, and are designed to get people writing music. The submissions are gathered each month and streamed in a listening party on Benn Jordan's [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@alphabasic). We enjoy the informal nature of these challenges, welcoming any genres and tracks that are still works in progress made in the limited time window.

What is this archive?
It documents our monthly challenges, the participating artists and their music in a more professional format. 

How was it made?
I, [informationcake](https://informationcake.com) (Alex), made this. Code is hosted in my GitHub repository, and Cloudflare has access to this repo to deploy the live webpage. It currently does not have access to the music files and is just an archive of public metadata. Whilst I am a software developer and scientist by trade, in the era of AI I feel it necessary to state that I do make use of AI agents (Gemini, Claude, CoPilot) to help accelerate productivity by reviewing code, finding/analysing bugs, and suggesting implementations. All code changes are reviewed and implemented by me. None of your music was seen by AI. 

How did my data get here?
If you submitted a track to Sim Selections via the website (or google form many years ago) it will be listed here (via the Google Sheet archive) since that is public data. Currently your tracks are not playable, but in the future they will only play if you opt-in (mechanism TBD). Note that your music can still be played on the public YouTube streams regardless.

Where is my data stored?
Public metadata is stored in the Google Sheet and my Github repo that deploys this archive. Your original audio submissions are now stored on Acid_rain's private infrastructure behind the Sim Selections website, and only used to get the tracks to Benn and admins for the purposes of the stream.

What's this about playback?
If we do, it will be opt-in for playback (mechanism TBD). After opting in, if in the future you decide to opt-out for whatever reason, we will also provide a mechanism for this. These mechanisms could be implemented in several ways, but will likely require some sort of authentication to ensure you own the track. Leaving the discord server will likely be seen as an automatic opt-out. For future Sim Selection challanges we could easily include an "opt-in for archive playback" tick box upon submitting. In terms of data storage, it is not feasible to use AWS storage for music streaming with the high egress costs. The best proposal so far is to use a Cloudflare R2 storage bucket with a serverless Cloudflare Worker proxy. For the amount of data and number of expected users this is essentially free. Only opted-in users would have their music uploaded to the private R2 bucket. Regardless of a file's presence in the bucket, it remains unplayable without the associated opt-in metadata, ensuring it is protected. This is all up for debate, but beyond these technical aspects, we must ensure users are aware of the legal implications of sharing their music, with clear terms of service.

Who has access?
This archive is currently password protected and for discord community members only. The code checks for the SHA-256 hash of the password, meaning the password is not directly stored in the repository. An unlock token is saved to your browser's local storage so you only need to enter it once per device. This is not a bullet proof mechanism, and there are other auth mechanisms available we could use after review, such as Auth0 and integration with discord accounts. But for now a simple global password is secure enough. Whilst playback is disabled, we may make this archive public after a review period by the community. If we enable playback in the future, we would review which auth mechanism is best.

How do I get my music here?
This is not a place you'll be able to dump your latest song or album. The song writing challenges we run are meant to be a system where you can work on something informally in around 20 days, and listen to it amongst friends without the pressure to polish the heck out of it. Many people go on to polish, modify, re-make their submissions and release them elsewhere, and you can follow that by clicking the links on the songs in this archive. This community is built on enjoying the creative process, supporting each other, and not worrying about the subjective and irrelevant nature of how "good" it is or if it's finished. If you want to participate in the monthly challenges, do join the Sim Selections channel in Benn's discord, you can get there via his patreon.

What is the vision for this archive?
Primarily, it's a record of the monthly challenges and artists who have participated, and how you can enjoy their work and support them. I have built this such that it's still a valuable archive of our work without playback being required. If we enable playback it would likely only be for the initial version you submitted. Allowing uploading of new versions or additional tracks is far beyond the scope here. But who knows what the community will want in the future and what we could develop. For example we have an opportunity to do data science with your music. Your music and user data could be analysed to create a similarity map you can browse, look at other audio statistics, or implement other features you can think of. Any such features would require an additional opt-in on top of the play-back opt-in, since it would require processing your original files. All such things are up for debate and we welcome ideas in the discord.

Many, many thanks
We want to thank everyone for creating, submitting, and trusting in this endeavour. It is truly remarkable to share music with each other in such a welcoming environment. It's a joy to listen to you all, whether it's your first ever song or you're a regular submitter. Thanks to Benn for being the catalyst and hosting the streams, to Jae for helping run things, and to Acid_rain and Stoic for creating the Sim Selections submission website.
